>> Jen Kramer: So let's go on ahead and
go through the answer here to the float
based grid system really quickly.
Now one of the questions
that we got over the break
was really why are we doing floats,
and that's a great question.
The reason why is this, so first of
all my sense of having been out there in
the field and taught this material a lot
is that people don't actually understand
how a float-based grid system works.
You guys work with them all the time.
You download them on Bootstrap and
Foundation and blah blah blah, but
you don't actually build your own and
you're not really sure how they work.
So that's one, two is you have to
understand the industry standard to
understand where we're going in the field,
so
we are going to be going to flex box and
grid.
If you do not understand how floats work,
you do not understand how we progressively
get better with flex box and grid.
And I feel very strongly about the fact
that you should understand the technology
that you are working with.
So that when your go back to your manager
after the end of this workshop, and
you say, we need to be coding in grid.
And your manager says, great,
and why you actually have an answer
to that question that you can make.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
take a look at the end state,
so we're in the chapter
one Intro floats folder.
I'm looking at the end state of this.
Now, obviously, once again, you may have
some different ideas for how layouts work.
You may have some different class names.
You may have some slightly different code.
This is my answer that doesn't negate
other answers to this particular problem.
So here is the CSS file,
if you scroll on down to
somewhere around line 32 you'll
see that we have a grid system.
And we're writing this mobile first,
so the styles that we have listed here
that are not inside the media query are
what we'll have on a mobile phone, okay?
As you scroll on down around line 62,
this is where we have what's
going on in the tablet.
And then at the very bottom of the page
is what's happening on desktop.
So I'm gonna sorta skip from mobile
down to desktop here momentarily.
So what I've got going on here for
the grid system is as follows.
The rows are gonna work exactly
the same across all the devices.
So for my row here, this is a fairly
common formula for how a query might work.
We use the class of row,
the pseudo element of after,
and the following formula for
doing that particular clear.
Those of you who noticed that
this one has two colons in it,
whereas the after that we listed up here
at the top of the document has one colon.
You have very sharp eyes good job.
What happened with this was as follows.
These pseudo elements like before and
after are part of the CSS 2
specification where they had one colon.
In CSS 3, they introduced two colons to
differentiate the pseudo selector from
sorry, the pseudo element from
the pseudo class which has one column.
So either one of this will work or sort
of compatible with browsers, all right?
Then for the mobile purposes, all of
my classes are going to be the same.
All of my columns are exactly the same
size, so what I have here is.
A width of 92%, why 92%?
Because I have a margin of 4% on the left
already associated with the style, and
then that leaves 4% left over to just sort
of wind up on the right side of the page.
Or actually, I guess I assigned it,
so that's the margin left and right.
You'll notice I have also given this
a minimum height of 1 pixel that's our
browser have for Internet Explorer.
One of the versions of Internet Explorer
that gets mad when there is no content,
so, there we go, that's everything
that's happening on mobile.
After that I have all of may
mother stewards colors here,
that's what those are.
And then I'm gonna skip
on down to Desktop.
Let's take a look at what's
going on at desktop.
These are the width,
the width are going to change, so,
the fact that were floating,
the fact that I have a margin that's
gonna be the same across all devices.
And again,
that is the design decision that I made.
You as a developer may
choose to make those margins
smaller with a smaller devices, there's
absolutely nothing wrong with that.
Feel free to do that and then your
values here will be slightly different.
But what we've got going on
here is with the column one,
so in another words the individual cells,
there width is gonna be 20% for
those adds up to 80.
And then we have five locations for
the margin at 4% each,
5 times 4 is 20, add that to 80,
we get 100%, okay.
Column two, column three, column four,
that's how the math works out for
those particular items.
>> Jen Kramer: When we go to the tablet
sizes here, what we've got going on
is I've cancelled out my margin on
the right from my mobile styles and
I have different sizes here for my width.
And I'll show you what's
going on here in my HTML.
You'll notice that I have a class
that's called col-1-2 and a col-1-4.
Those indicate that I have a column that
is one, in other words one column wide,
at say desktop dimensions it will
go to either two columns wide or
four columns wide.
At the tablet and
potentially mobile dimensions.
So, and I'll show you where
that happens in the HTML.
So, in the first row here, these
articles are all clause of column 1-2.
Okay so, they’re gonna be
four going across the page.
When it collapses it goes to two across,
right?
So that’s the behavior of these
yellow ones here on the top row.
Four individually and
then they go to two and two, all right?
But, in row three here,
we have a different behavior going on.
I have one column wide here at desktop
dimensions, but I want it to stack
one on top of the other when we get
down here to tablet dimensions, okay?
So that is different behavior
at tablet and mobile dimensions.
And so I need a different style for that.
So that I called that one col-1-4 and
you'll see that I assign that
down here on line 56, okay.
So basically the markup for
all of these looks pretty much the same,
we have a div with a class of row.
I've marked these up as articles,
each one of the little content
blurbs it is a title, it is a picture,
it has paragraph, it has a read more link.
I've call those articles because they're
probably syndicatable in some method
or another.
The row itself is only
serving as a clear and so
therefore I've chosen a div tag for
marking that up here.
All right, are there any questions on
this material at this point in time.
And I'm gonna wait here for a second cuz
I'm told there is like one minute lag.
>> Speaker 2: So
where is the tablet media query?
>> Jen Kramer: The tablet media
query is right here line 62, 63.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: So 48,
minimum with the 480.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Do you guys understand like
the whole minimum within.
>> Speaker 2: Yes, and then the only
screen end, what does that do?
>> Jen Kramer: So,
that’s gonna work on the screen, but
it may not necessarily work
on other types of devices.
It may not necessarily do that for print.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: You can leave that out,
remember media queries.
This is a common thing we forget
working in responsive design.
We always use media queries in this
way in terms of how big our screen is.
But actually media queries also pertain
to, print style sheets, we use to
do a print style sheet back in the old
days, now we do those by media queries.
So media query can hold our print styles.
>> Speaker 3: In
the floats.CSS on line 64.
>> Jen Kramer: Line 64.
>> Speaker 3: Why is the attribute
selector under the mobile landscape media
query?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so why does
this selector exist here on line 64?
Why is it here on mobile?
So if you take a look first up here on,
sorry, why does it exist here on tablet?
So this outside on Line
39 is a similar selector.
This is the way this is gonna
display on a mobile phone.
So it'll be 92% wide with a 4%
margin on the left and the right.
When we go to a larger screen dimension,
over 480 pixels,
I get rid of the margin on the right.
Because now I'm gonna have multiple
cells next to each other and
I don't wanna have margin on the left and
the right,
and that adds together to 8%
instead of just being 4%.
And I want this to be floated to the left,
remember that here on,
the style here on line 39 there's
actually no float that's called.
We're just stacking things on top
of each other for our form, so
here we actually call out
the float on the left.
Now because of the way these media queries
are written with a minimum width of 480.
Any of the styles that are here
inside of the tablet or
as I called the mobile landscape screen
size, carry down into the desktop as well.
Unless we specifically override
them in the desktop media query.
Okay, so hopefully that helps some.
Do we have other questions, Mark?
>> Speaker 3: Why not put the clear
directly on the row instead of row
after psuedo element?
>> Jen Kramer: Because this is typically,
basically, because this is the formula.
This is the way that it's typically done.
If you take a look out there
in the great wide world and
how people do clears,
it's typically done as an after like this.